Capital structure is a very basic
concept of corporate finance
and finance that I think we should
understand well.
The first thing we will do is
define the concept.
What is the structure of capital?
Well, the structure of capital determines
how we will finance the
company.
The main factor is the proportion
of debt and debt.
Here is a key ratio, which is
the leverage ratio.
The structure of capital
determines the leverage ratio.
Why is this important?
Why is the structure of
capital important?
Because they have huge
implications on many things.
So look, on the profits in
the income account because
we will pay taxes on cash
flows.
The fact of obtaining debt or
not has major implications on cash
flows, entries, amortisations,
etc.
It has a huge implication in the
risk it faces.
In the risk of bankruptcy, for
example, the fact of getting more
debt increases the risk.
And above all, and most importantly,
what we will see is that the capital
structure is determinant
of the company’s value and
it is said that we must look
for an optimal capital structure
that maximizes the company’
s value.
Let us review two key concepts.
One is financial leverage.
If we start from the assumption
that we obtain a profitability
higher than the cost of debt,
the more we borrow, the greater
the profitability of our own funds.
Second, the increase in debt leads
to an increase in costs.
This we have to build on these
two concepts and we will see how
this affects the valuation of
the company.
We will understand this very well with
this graph.
As we see, the company’s
valuation increases as leverage
increases to a point that,
as we see, the trend
is reversed.
And we will understand it well.
Things I want you to remember.
Well, to start with,
investors prefer to be leveraged.
Why is?
Because the fact that you
are leveraged will increase
ROE, will increase the
profitability of shareholders.
And I can give you real examples
if you make a round and raise, for
example, two million euros.
Funds or investors will prefer
that, in addition to those two
million equity, you can
access bank financing, for
example.
Why is?
The profitability of this
equity will increase.
We have shown this well in the
course.
The company’s rating is increasing.
And if we thought of a perfect
world, as we have seen, the
leverage ratio makes the profitability
of our own funds increase,
because then what we would
have to do would be leverage
as much as possible.
If we could reach 99% and that only
1% was equity, imagine the 3,000
euros of social capital, well,
because in those circumstances
the profitability that own funds
get would be maximized because
they have put very little
money.
But here comes another factor, and
that is the risk.
This is very easy to understand too.
How would you rate a company
that is up to 99%?
It would scare you a lot, right?
You will perceive a lot of fear, a lot of risk.
This is to reduce the value
of the company.
Why is?
Because investors demand very
high returns, the cost of capital
is very high in this case.
That is pure common sense.
But look, not only
investors, not only partners,
but also debt providers,
banks.
If a bank has to lend money
to a company that is leveraged
to 99%, I don’t think it would first
lend it, but if it does, the
risk is so high that the interest
rates it demands, that is, the
cost of the debt would
also increase a lot.
Therefore, as we see, the value
of the company increases,
increases if you are leveraging
to a certain point, to a point
where you have exceeded,
that is, a prudence criterion,
which depends on each of the
sectors.
There are sectors where you can
leverage more than others, because
you have more stable cash flows,
because it is a business with
less risk, etc.
And as we exceed that limit,
that range, in which we
are taking excessive risks,
the company’s value
will decrease.
Why is?
Both the debt providers and the
debt partners will be penalized.